# server-client

HTTP Server Client v1.0
Specification

Md Mazharul Islam

mislam7@uncc.edu




Contents

1 Introduction	

2 Installation	

2.1 Source Code Build	

2.2 Executable	

3 Simulation	

4 Project Analysis	


1 Introduction

This is the full specification of HTTP Server Client v1.0. It has three main section:
1.	Installation,
2.	Simulation, and
3.	Project Description (Source code analysis).
Important: every instruction mentioned in this document is case sensitive.

2 Installation

This project comes with executable .jar files as well as source codes. The executables will be found as executables.zip and the source code for building the project will be found as server-client.zip with this project.

So, it is possible to run HTTP Server Client v1.0 directly from the executables, but user can build their desired installation (binary, jar, exe etc.) from the source code too.  
2.1 Source Code Build

HTTP Server Client v1.0 is a Gradle project. To build this project, all you need (optional if user wants to build with other tools like, Maven, Ant etc.) is Gradle installed in your machine. Install Gradle from here.

The instructions are as follows:

To build the Client module:
1.	Open a bash (terminal) and go to the directory: /<root>/server-client/client where <root> is the path where you put the project directory server-client.
2.	Run the command: gradle clean installdist
3.	This command will create a client installation in: <root>\server-client\client\build\install\client\lib
4.	Inside that lib folder user will find the following two jar files:
a.	client.jar
b.	util.jar

To build the Server module:
1.	Open a bash (terminal) and go to the directory: /<root>/server-client/server where <root> is the path where you put the project directory server-client.
2.	Run the command: gradle clean installdist
3.	This command will create a server installation in: <root>\server-client\server\build\install\server\lib
4.	Inside that lib folder user will find the following two jar files:
a.	server.jar
b.	util.jar


2.2 Executable

HTTP Server Client v1.0 comes with a directory named executables. The hierarchy of this directory is:
-executables
- Client
- client.jar
- util.jar
-Server
- server.jar
- util.jar

3 Simulation

To run the HTTP Server Client v1.0 use the given executables directory or create something similar folder structure and copy paste the .jar files generated by building the source code (Section 2.1 Source Code Build).
In this specification, we will assume that you use the folder structure we shown at executables.
Note, the util.jar file should reside with both the client.jar and server.jar in Client and Server folder respectively. 
Procedure:
To run the Server module:
1.	Open a bash (terminal) and go to the directory: /<root>/executables/Server 
2.	Run the command: java -jar server.jar <port_number> where <port_number> is any valid port number. An example command is: java -jar server.jar 9000
3.	To shut down the server:
a.	Press Control + C, or
b.	Write shutdown in the console. Remember, the keyword shutdown is case sensitive.
The server will start and ready to listen any client. 
To run the Client module:
1.	Open a bash (terminal) and go to the directory: /<root>/executables/Client 
2.	Run the command: java -jar client.jar <host_name> <port_name> <command> <file_name>. An example command is: java -jar client.jar 127.0.0.1 9000 GET lorem.html
3.	Important:
a.	GET and PUT command should be in capital.
b.	The file should reside in the same directory, e.g. the lorem.html file should reside under Client folder.



4 Project Analysis

The server is fully multithreaded so that it can listen to multiple clients simultaneously. When server is shut down by the command: shutdown or by pressing Control + C, it closes all the connection gracefully.
Both the server and client is testable with other browsers like Google Chrome, Firefox etc. and servers like www.google.com, www.amazon.com etc.
Any PUT command will create the file locally in the server side. In our given executables, file will be created under Server directory.
To put a file in the server using the PUT command from client, the file should be available under the Client directory, otherwise File not found exception will be raised.
The Github link for HTTP Server Client v1.0 is: https://github.com/rakeb/server-client

